docs: add post about certificates (#1104)
kedacore/keda-docs: content/blog/2023-05-02-certificate-improvements.md

+++
title = "Securing autoscaling with the newly improved certificate management in KEDA 2.10"

> date = 2023-05-02

Author: ```suggestion
date = 2023-05-16
```

The second case was more complicated... We really trust in the encryption as the way to achieve secure connections, so we wanted to support encrypted connection wherever a user wants to use them, but using self-signed certificates is a really common scenario and that was complex to manage. As a first and fast option, we decided to support an extra parameter in some scalers to skip the certificate validation, allowing these scenarios.

Before version 2.9, KEDA was composed by 2 different components with totally different goals, the operator and the metrics server. As both components were independent by design, so we didn't need to secure anything between them, but it changed in version v2.9. [As we announced in KEDA v2.9 release](/blog/releases/2.9.0), we introduced an important change in the architecture. Now we have 2 components, but they are strong related and they need to have a secured channel for the internal communications. At that point, we decided to release v2.9 with this gap in terms of encryption for internal communications, but having the commitment of solving this for the next version.

> ## Securing connections between KEDA components and kubernetes API server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Securing connections between KEDA components and Kubernetes API server
```

As part of version 2.10, we have released a mechanism to generate a self-signed certificate that will be used for encrypting all the traffic between KEDA components but also patching `apiservice` and the new validating webhook to include the `caBundle`. Thanks to this mechanism, we can encrypt all the traffic between KEDA components with mutual TLS in the latest version (TLSv1.3), but also allows removing the `insecureSkipTLSVerify` flag in the `apiservice`, making more secure all the communications between the cluster and KEDA.

> As default, KEDA uses self-signed certificates for different things. These certificates are generated and rotated by the operator. Certificates are stored in a Kubernetes secret (`kedaorg-certs`) that it's mounted to all KEDA components in the (default) path `/certs`. Generated files are named `tls.crt` and `tls.key` for TLS certificate and `ca.crt` and `ca.key` for CA certificate. KEDA also patches Kubernetes resources to include the `caBundle`, making Kubernetes to trust in the CA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, KEDA uses self-signed certificates for various things and the operator is in charge of generating and rotating them. Certificates are stored in a Kubernetes secret (`kedaorg-certs`) that is mounted to all KEDA components to `/certs`. Generated files are named `tls.crt` and `tls.key` for TLS certificate and `ca.crt` and `ca.key` for CA certificate. KEDA also patches Kubernetes resources to include the `caBundle`, making Kubernetes to trust in the CA.
```

However, is this really relevant information for end-users?

While this is a good starting point, some end-users may want to use their own certificates which are generated from their own CA in order to improve security. This can be done by disabling the certificate generation/rotation in the operator and updating default values in other components (if required). 

The KEDA operator is responsible for generating certificates for all the services, this behaviour can be disabled removing the console argument `--enable-cert-rotation=true` or setting it to `false`. Once this setting is disabled, user given certs can be placed in the secret `kedaorg-certs` which is automatically mounted in all the components or they can be patched to use other secret (this can be done through helm values too).

> All components inspect the folder `/certs` for any certificates inside it. Argument `--cert-dir` can be used to specify another folder to be used as a source for certificates, this argument can be patched in the manifests or using Helm values.

Author: I meant that all the components check the content of the folder '/certs' looking for certificates
